Folks:

My apologies in advance if I vent somewhat.  

Briefly, some of you know that I attended Berkeley's Policy School.  I have 
been very closely involved with the conference Severin describes in his note 
to Littlechild.  I have been working to try to establish a joint venture 
between the policy and business schools at Berkeley to hold an "energy 
summit," where national and international energy leaders would converge on 
California (under the auspices of UC Berkeley) to talk energy policy.  Jim 
Steffes has helped a lot in brainstorming the idea.  In short,, our goal was 
to have a group of prominent folks squarely refute the extremely retrograde 
notions of "turn the clock back" that the Governor of California's two most 
recent appointees have been articulating at every opportunity over the past 
several months, and re-seize the agenda in California. The "energy heads of 
state" at the summit would come up with solutions for going forward.

The concept (and invitees) that Severin describes is loosely based on 
proposals I have made to the "steering committee."  However, for reasons I 
won't bore you with in this note, the effort has frankly turned into a 
fiasco.  I notified the group this week that Enron would not be 
participating, that they should go forward with the conference without us, 
and that I would help somewhat (contacts, etc.) when (and if) they ever came 
to agreement on the agenda and particpants.  From my perspective, the effort 
turned out to be a rather big disappointment.  I urge us not to get involved 
or contribute $$s.  At this juncture I would recommend against having Ken Lay 
participate.  Depending on how the thing shapes up, we may  or may not want 
to have someone at a substantially lower level participate, but I'm 
pessimistic at this point.  If anyone would like to discuss my reasons in 
more detail, I'd be happy to discuss.

I still think the idea of an energy summit is very promising.  But the forum 
that these folks are creating ain't the right one.

Best,
Jeff