To Jim's last point.  I understand that the good 'ol utility system was often 
operated with little regard for basic economic principles, but there's 
something in this that seems very odd and difficult to assess, and it seems 
to always be tied to this notion that "California is a net importer, even in 
the winter."  I'm going to start with the economics and then let folks 
describe why it seemingly doesn't apply in Western electricity markets.

Just about every theory of economics and trade would lead to one conclusion:  
If California closes it's doors the other Western states will pay higher 
prices for power and/or face increased threats to reliability.  I'm 
struggling to try to determine why these basic principles aren't applicable 
to Western power markets.  I understand that the PNW is a very complex place 
and that the reasons could be embedded in the arcane structure that has 
developed over the years.

To keep it simple (though not necessarily accurate), I've confined the 
analysis to a world in which only the PNW and California exist.

The basic situation: The PNW peaks in the winter; California peaks in the 
summer.

Let's take two scenarios:

1)  The West, less California, is so awash in electricity that even in its 
peak--the Winter--it still has power to send to California, i.e., it has so 
overbuilt it's system that it has persistent surpluses to sell to California.

Irrespective, there have (to my limited knowledge) always been sales from CA 
to the PNW during the winter, when the PNW is peaking.
The only conclusion that one can make, assuming that the PNW is awash in 
electricity, is that the PNW takes the power in California because it makes 
economic sense to do so. That is, during the winter peaking months, it must 
be cheaper on the margin for the PNW to buy from California rather than 
produce itself.  Otherwise, it's difficult to understand why it would buy 
from California during this month, particularly if they're long.  As such, at 
a minimum, the PNW's electric bill will necessarily increase if California 
closes its doors.

2) Neither the PNW , nor California, has indigenous capacity to meet peaking 
load.  Therefore, the PNW must buy California's power during its peaking 
summer period, and California must buy power during it's summer peaking 
period.  In this case, not only will the PNW's bill go up if California 
closes its doors, the lights are likely to go because they'll be short power.

I realize that this is a simplistic model, and that there could be other 
legitimate economic factors driving the flows out of California to the PNW 
(e.g., transmission costs).  And again, I also realize that economics may not 
have traditionally been a driver in the industry.  But I thought it might be 
useful to get a common framework in place as a starting point for the 
question that Jim asks.

With that, I'll pose the question (understanding the simplicity of the model 
set forth above):  Given that California sends power north--even if the PNW 
